---
layout: post
title: Using HTML tags in Markdown (Kramdown)
comments: true
category:
- english
- markdown
---

# TL;DR

1. Kramdown, used by Jekyll, supports raw HTML tag and attribute `markdown=1` to parse its inner content.
2. In markdown, indented code blocks is made by indentation.
3. Indented content of raw HTML tag `<div>` will be treated as `code`.

# 1. Backgroud

<!-- I have a really dirty analogy here but let's forget it -->

**Markdown** is a lightweight markup language. It has a few extensions, or *dialects*, e.g. GFM (GitHub Flavored Markdown). Jekyll is a static site generator that is used as a default for GitHub Pages. Jekyll is written in Ruby and it uses another Ruby library [Kramdown](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/) to parse and convert markdown.

This blog is currently written in these toolchains. I was trying to add some custom layout tuning for my pages written in GFM, by embeding html tags so that I can control their appearance.

# 2. HTML blocks in Markdown

> The original Markdown syntax specifies that an HTML block must start at the left margin, i.e. no indentation is allowed. Also, the HTML block has to be surrounded by blank lines. Both restrictions are lifted for kramdown documents. Additionally, the original syntax does not allow you to use Markdown syntax in HTML blocks which is allowed with kramdown.
> 
>  -- Difference to Stardard Markdown [[doc]](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/syntax.html#html-blocks)

It's almost the quote-quasiquote game that occurs in markdown. kramdown support HTML tag attribute `markdown="<val>"` that means the content of this tag is raw HTML (`0`), markdown (`1`) and others.

# 3. Code blocks

I usually use **fenced code blocks** (`` ```code``` ``) so I forgot **indented code blocks** can also be made by indenting four spaces, e.g.

    I am the bone of my sword.
    Steel is my body, and fire is my blood.

    I don't find out how to set the **language identifier **
    for indented code block

# 4. Experiments

These experiments are performed at `kramdown 2.3.2` (`kramdown-parser-gfm 1.1.0`). Note `<span>` is an inline element so it breaks some styling of this post but let's ignore it.

## 4.1 Raw HTML without attribute `markdown='1'`

```html
<div>I am raw **markdown** in (div). </div>
```

<div>I am raw **markdown** in (div). </div>

---

```html
<span>I am raw **markdown** in (span). </span>
```

<span>I am raw **markdown** in (span). </span>

---

```html
<p>I am raw **markdown** in (p). </p>
```

<p>I am raw **markdown** in (p). </p>

---

## 4.2 Raw HTML with attribute `markdown='1'`

```html
<div markdown='1'>I am **markdown** in (div). </div>
```

<div markdown='1'> I am **markdown** in (div). </div>

---

```html
<span markdown='1'>I am **markdown** in (span). </span>
```

<span markdown='1'>I am **markdown** in (span). </span>


---

```html
<p markdown='1'>I am **markdown** in (p). </p>
```

<p markdown='1'>I am **markdown** in (p). </p>

---

## 4.3 Indented code in HTML without attribute `markdown='1'`


```html
<div>
    I am **code** in (div). 
</div>
```

<div>
    I am **code** in (div). 
</div>

---

```html
<span>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</span>
```

<span>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</span>

---

```html
<p>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</p>
```

<p>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</p>

---

## 4.4 Indented code in HTML with attribute `markdown='1'`


```html
<div markdown='1'>
    I am **code** in (div). 
</div>
```

<div markdown='1'>
    I am **code** in (div). 
</div>

---

```html
<span markdown='1'>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</span>
```

<span markdown='1'>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</span>

---

```html
<p markdown='1'>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</p>
```

<p markdown='1'>
    I am **code** in (p). 
</p>

---

# 4.5 Observations

Vanilla `<span>` can parse its inner markdown content.

Only `<div markdown='1'>` can parse indented content as code.

For other tags and non-indented content, HTML tags must set `markdown='1'` to parse its markdown content, otherwise the content is treated literally.